---
tags:
  - coding
  - queue
nanoid: ouw2jvecuux3
type: journal_note
created_at: 2024-06-20 00:14
---
#JaiLu [Ask HN: Why do message queue-based architectures seem less popular now? | Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40723302).

Je trouve la question très intéressante.

Ce commentaire m'a bien fait rire :

> Going to give the unpopular answer. Queues, Streams and Pub/Sub are poorly understood concepts by most engineers. They don't know when they need them, don't know how to use them properly and choose to use them for the wrong things. I still work with all of the above (SQS/SNS/RabbitMQ/Kafka/Google Pub/Sub).
> 
> I work at a company that only hires the best and brightest engineers from the top 3-4 schools in North America and for almost every engineer here this is their first job.
> 
> My engineers have done crazy things like:
> 
> - Try to queue up tens of thousands of 100mb messages in RabbitMQ instantaneously and wonder why it blows up.
> - Send significantly oversized messages in RabbitMQ in general despite all of the warnings saying not to do this
> - Start new projects in 2024 on the latest RabbitMQ version and try to use classic queues
> - Creating quorum queues without replication policies or doing literally anything to make them HA.
> - Expose clusters on the internet with the admin user being guest/guest.
> - The most senior architect in the org declared a new architecture pattern, held an organization-wide meeting and demo to extol the new virtues/pattern of ... sticking messages into a queue and then creating a backchannel so that a second consumer could process those queued messages on demand, out of order (and making it no longer a queue). And nobody except me said "why are you putting messages that you need to process out of order into a queue?"...and the 'pattern' caught on!
> - Use Kafka as a basic message queue
> - Send data from a central datacenter to globally distributed datacenters with a global lock on the object and all operations on it until each target DC confirms it has received the updated object. Insist that this process is asynchronous, because the data was sent with AJAX requests.
> 
> As it turns out, people don't really need to do all that great of a job and we still get by. So tools get misused, overused and underused.
> 
> In the places where it's being used well, you probably just don't hear about it.
> 
> Edit: I forgot to list something significant. There's over 30 microservices in our org to every 1 engineer. Please kill me. I would literally rather Kurt Cobain myself than work at another organization that has thousands of microservices in a gigantic monorepo.
